Welcome to the fourth course
of data analytic for business.
In the first course of the specialization,
they've covered how analytic problems
emerge in an information life
cycle that begins with events in the real
world and ends with business actions.
In his course, you also learned about
technologies that enable analytical work.
You examine data storage and
data basis, along with big data and
cloud technologies.
And then in the second course,
walk you through explanatory data
analysis and prediction models.
In the third course, you and
I made a transition from predictive
analytics to prescriptive analytics.
You learn about capturing
uncertainty through simulation,
and you also learn about
building optimization models.
These three courses have given you
a solid foundation of data analytics for
business problems.
Obviously, the topics
that we have covered so
far could be explored at the greater
detail, which by the way that's exactly
what we do hear at the Leeds School in our
Master's Program in Business Analytics.
So you might want to think about
coming to Boulder for a year.
Anyway, at this point you do
have an overall understanding
of how analytical organizations use data.
You also know about the main techniques
and models for data analytics.
However, all the knowledge and the hard
work of doing analysis to gain insights,
are not enough to produce
actionable items and results.
The missing piece of the puzzle
is effective communication, and
this is what Dave, Dan and I are going
to discuss in this fourth course.
Tables and graphs are the main vehicles
communicate quantitative information.
However, few of those individuals making
presentations or writing documents,
have ever taken a formal course on
designing effective tables and graphs.
When should a table be used?
When should a graph be used?
If a graph is used,
which type of graph should it be?
So as part of this course,
we will discuss simple guidelines that
will help you make these decisions.
If you Google data visualization you
will get almost 30 million webpages.
Data visualization tools have become
very popular because of their
power to communicate quantitative
information through visual perception.
A single well designed graph
is able to communicate an incredibly
large amount of information.
Graphs are particularly helpful when
you're trying to communicate patterns,
trends or receptions.
They are also effective when
comparing several series of values.
Data visualization is definitely great,
but
there are things that you need to avoid
and you will learn about them here.
The end of the day,
communicating analytical resource is
about telling a story, with numbers.
Tables and graphs are instruments,
but they're not the story.
Your facts and findings are the story,
and you need to communicate them well.
Effective communication,
it starts with knowing your audience.
Then, you also need to know general
principles of effective storytelling.
I am glad that you have made it to
this point of our specialization.
Dave, Dan and
I work really hard on creating
a comprehensive view of data analytics.
What you experience in
the first three courses, and
what you will experience in this one
is the result of a coordinated effort.
We did not want to just each
of us do our own thing.
This is our collective view of
data analytics in the context of
business problems and decision making.